Now with that we're nearing the end and there's just one more type I also want to introduce or one type
could feature.
I want to introduce and that's the generic types feature.
And what's that.
Well we already are working with one generic type here.
If we have a look at our results here we see this is an array an array full of calculation containers.
Now array turns out to be a type in typescript which is a so-called generic type.
We could say that result is of type array here but type wouldn't like this.
As you see it tells us that the generic type array t whatever Data's requires one type argument.
There are certain values in in JavaScript as well as in types could be up for that simply work together
with other value types and other values and the array is such a value the array itself is a value any
array is an object but an array of course only really works because it stores our values.
So we get two types work together the array and the data India rate and therefore we want to be clear
that results holds an array but we also want to be clear about which array now we could say array any
and use these strange angle brackets to connect these two types.
We have an array and what's in the array is anything but we can all be more precise and say it's an
array of calculation containers and in the end what we used before calculation container with square
brackets thereafter is just syntactic sugar for this notation here where we as software we use generic
array type to be very precise about the type of data inside of it and there are other generic types
in typescript as well.
For example the promise type if you have a promise for example because you're using the fetch API to
make a h to repeat request then of course you have a promise as a return type but that promise will
eventually resolve a value and that value will also be of a type.
So a promise is another example of two types working together.
We have the promise type and the promise will give us another type of data.
Therefore a promise is another generic type in typescript just like array.
It's the combination of multiple types and you can also build your own generic types if you have something
like this.
If we have a very simple dummy function maybe at the very bottom here log and Echo which doesn't do
much but which gets a value and which then logs the value and returns it.
Then this could be a generic function.
Now here we accept any type of data you could say.
But then we don't get any extra typescript support.
If I call log and Echo and pass in hi there then I know log in Echo returns what I passed in there and
that's a string.
So I would like to do string stuff with it like split it but I can't do that.
Why can't I do that.
Because type doesn't know what log and equal returns and returns anything because I set the value type
to anything here so that's where generic types can help us.
We can create a generic function in this case.
You can always have generic classes and objects but here we can build a generic function.
We do that by adding angle brackets after log and echos before the parameter list and then typically
you use t as a placeholder for the type but you can use any identifier you want but t is what you'd
see most often and then you say Val is all of type T and what you're saying with that is whoever calls
log in Echo should give me the precise the exact type of data he wants to work with and then I know
that I will get an argument of this type and you can use that generic type anywhere in the function
either for the parameters or inside of that function body wherever you need it.
And here when I call log and echo I can now make it clear that I pass on a string here and now I get
nice auto completion off of for example want to split the result or whatever I want to do.
So that's how I can build my own generic function in this case.
Now as I said You can also build your own generic classes and so on but this would now lead a bit too
far.
There is way more you can do with typescript but this is only meant to be an introduction which gets
you to think about TypeScript and gets you introduced to some of the core features which you then will
see fraud.
Other projects you're working on or which you will then see once you dive deeply into typescript.
So these are generic types they're everywhere.
There are built in generic types like array and promise and you can also build your own ones.